Update docs (#61)
scale-vector/dlt: README.md

# Data Load Tool (DLT)

## What is DLT?

Data Load Tool (DLT) is an open source python library for building data pipelines.

> It's goal is to enable faster building of low-maintenance data pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The goal of DLT is to make it easier and faster to build low-maintenance data pipelines.
```

> It's designed to run anywhere (python 3.8+) and it can fit in your existing workflows or be scheduled independently.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It's designed to run anywhere (Python 3.8+), so it can fit into your existing workflows or be scheduled independently (e.g. using GitHub Actions)
```

Learn more with the **[Quickstart Guide](QUICKSTART.md)** and check out **[Example Sources](examples/README.md)** to get started.

## Who is DLT for?

DLT is for data professionals who use Python to build pipelines.

> - dlt enables non-engineers to build commercial-grade pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DLT enables anyone who knows a bit of Python to build commercial-grade pipelines
```

> - dlt minimises maintenance by design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- DLT minimises maintenance requirements by design
```

> - dlt is a better replacement for most home-baked custom pipelines.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Reviewer: I feel like this comes through with the first two points

> - Community pipeline packages are a good resource for typical needs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The DLT community shares pipelines with each other, so frequently you'll be able to just use a pipeline created by someone else
```

## Why use DLT?

DLT is the first python data-pipelining library, meant to be a pip-installable easy to use pipeline creation and deployment kit.

> If you end up creating your own pipeline in python, then create it with DLT and benefit from

Reviewer: Specifically, your Python scripts will benefit from:

- automatic schema inference, deployment, evolution, and data contracts - so you do not have to maintain schemas
- configurable loading - append, replace, or merge.
- configurable normalisation engine - decide how to unpack nested documents or specify date formats
- commercial-grade engineering - dlt implements data engineering best practices such as idempotent, atomic loading.

## How does it work?

DLT aims to simplify data loading for everyone.

To achieve this, we take into account the progressive steps of data pipelining:

![](docs/DLT-Diagram_2.png)
### 1. Data extraction

> DLT accepts json or json-producing functions as input, including nested, unstructured data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DLT accepts json and json-producing functions as input, including nested, unstructured data.
```

### 2. Data normalisation

> DLT features a configurable normalisation engine - it can recursively unpack nested structures into relational tables, or handle various data type conversions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
DLT features a configurable normalisation engine that recursively unpacks nested structures into relational tables, handles various data type conversions, etc.
```

Author: I agree to remove the hyphen but I think we should keep the optional "can" as some folks wanna load raw json string.

Reviewer: edited it to add `can` back in :)

> ### 3. Low effort, Safe & scalable loading

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### 3. Data loading
```

> When we load data, many things can interrupt the process, so we want to make sure we can safely retry without generating artefacts in the data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When we load data, many things can interrupt the process, so we want to make sure we can safely retry without generating artifacts in the data.
```

Additionally, it's not uncommon to not know the data size in advance, making it a challenge to match data size to loading infrastructure.

> With good pipelining design, safe loading becomes a non-issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With good pipelining design, safe loading becomes a non-issue.

```

* Schema evolution - configurable strategy for schema changes: automatic migration or fail&alert.
* Idempotency & Atomicity: Built in best practices of Atomic loading (all or nothing), and configurable Idempotency (do not double load, incurs a table "read" cost)
* Data-size agnostic: By using generators (like incremental downloading) and online storage as a buffer, it can incrementally process sources of any size without running into worker-machine size limitations.

## Why?

> Data loading is at the base of the data work pyramid.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data loading is how all data works starts.
```

> The current ecosystem of tools follows an old paradigm where the data pipeline creator is a software engineer, while the data pipeline user is an analyst.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current ecosystem of tools follows an old paradigm, where the data pipeline creator is a software engineer, while the data pipeline user is an analyst.
```

# Data Load Tool (DLT)

## What is DLT?

Data Load Tool (DLT) is an open source python library for building data pipelines.

The goal of DLT is to make it easier and faster to build low-maintenance data pipelines.

It's designed to run anywhere (Python 3.8+), so it can fit into your existing workflows or be scheduled independently (e.g. using GitHub Actions)

> Learn more with the **[Quickstart Guide](QUICKSTART.md)** and check out **[Example Sources](examples/README.md)** to get started.

Reviewer 2: I would put ahead a qualifier in which stage we are in with DLT ahead of  "Learn more with the **[Quickstart Guide](QUICKSTART.md)** and check out **[Example Sources](examples/README.md)** to get started." eg "While we have been using DLT in production for a while, this public version is in friendly viewing". I would want @TyDunn / @adrianbr to come up with a phrasing they like

- DLT enables anyone who knows a bit of Python to build commercial-grade pipelines
- DLT minimises maintenance requirements by design
- The DLT community shares pipelines with each other, so frequently you'll be able to just use a pipeline created by someone else

## Why use DLT?

DLT takes the Python scripts you already write to the next level with a library you install using pip in order to create highly scalable, easily maintainable pipelines that are straightforward to deploy.

If you end up creating your own pipeline in python, then create it with DLT and your loading scripts will benefit from
- Automatic schema maintenance (i.e. schema inference, deployment, evolution, data contracts, etc.)
- Configurable loading (e.g. append, replace, merge, etc.)
- Configurable normalisation (i.e. decide how to unpack nested documents, specify date formats, etc.)
- High performance loading engine (i.e. data engineering best practices like idempotent, atomic, scalable loading)

## How does it work?

DLT aims to simplify data loading for the millions of people who have taken at least one Python course

To achieve this, we take into account the progressive steps of data pipelining:

> ![](docs/DLT-Diagram_2.png)

Reviewer: @adrianbr can we use a better image here? I can update the diagram Mike previously created, if that is the issue

Reviewer 2: +10. could you do that @TyDunn this DLT-Diagram_2.png makes me ask more questions/confuses me (why mention singer tabs? what is a lakehouse?

### 1. Data extraction

DLT accepts json and json-producing functions as input, including nested, unstructured data.

### 2. Data normalisation

DLT features a configurable normalisation engine that can recursively unpack nested structures into relational tables, handle various data type conversions, etc.

### 3. Data loading

When we load data, many things can interrupt the process, so we want to make sure we can safely retry without generating artifacts in the data.

Additionally, it's not uncommon to not know the data size in advance, making it a challenge to match data size to loading infrastructure.

With good pipelining design, safe loading becomes a non-issue.

* Schema evolution - configurable strategy for schema changes: automatic migration or fail&alert.
* Idempotency & Atomicity: Built in best practices of Atomic loading (all or nothing), and configurable Idempotency (do not double load, incurs a table "read" cost)
* Data-size agnostic: By using generators (like incremental downloading) and online storage as a buffer, it can incrementally process sources of any size without running into worker-machine size limitations.

## Why?

> Data loading is how all data works starts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Data loading is how all data work starts.
```
